# Customer Statement of Requirements

Customer Statement of Requirements for Ava

​     For most people today, cooking or experimenting with food is a challenge because there is just not enough time in one’s busy schedule to whip together a tasteful meal for the family or loved one in any occasion. Someone may have all the ingredients for a chocolate soufflé but never be able to make it because they never thought to search for a recipe with that specific ingredient or spice which they already have in their cabinet. Similarly, when someone finds a recipe they must rely on the reviews of strangers to decide if the recipe will be tasty. For many Americans, when something is too difficult or time consuming we have little desire to do or learn it; furthermore, with cooking or baking, one might believe there are more important things to spend their time on. Most recipe programs are complex and while they may offer many features, this also can make the program very confusing, complicated, and machine-like. This is an issue that needs to be resolved. 

 For most, cost and convenience are also factors—which may be partly why fast food restaurants are so popular.  They try to offer the most “bang for your buck”, are easy and fast to build a meal, and are located on practically every corner; however, they can also be a burden on one’s waist size and wallet.While some establishments may offer a “healthier choice” menu or entrée, this “healthier choice” may not be an actual healthy choice especially when almost 60% of young adults agree that they eat at fast food restaurants at least weekly. There is a reason that the connection between eating out and obesity is so prevalent. If cooking at home was cheaper and just as easy and fast as ordering in or going out, more people would stay in. Ava can be a useful tool for those who are trying to center themselves around a healthier diet because they can find recipes that relate to the healthy products they already have or will get. 

To remedy this problem, we introduce Ava—your partner in crime to making a delicious home-cooked meal and your sous-chef in the kitchen. Ava is all about convenience and simplicity. She can help a person with deciding what to make for breakfast, lunch, dinner, and dessert in a simple, fast, and powerful way. Although the user is working on a computer, the experience is much different—Ava is more like a friend and the user can feel comfortable using our program rather than dealing with a complicated,cold, and static system. It is understandable that making a new meal can be a frustrating experience which is why Ava will be there to provide someone with step by step instructions. For those who are worried about the cost, a person will not be forced to go grocery shopping for certain ingredients to fulfill a recipe because they can search for recipes based on what is already in their cabinets. 

A user will be able to put their ingredients into a pantry to keep track of what they have available to use in recipes. Users will have the option to make an account to store all their information so the next time they want to search for a meal based on cuisine or the time-of-day or the ingredients they have, or just view the ingredients they have leftover, it will not all have to be retyped or entered in. Ava is more reliable than the regular search engine because the user can be confident that the items and recipes they input or save will be there the next time and there is less hassle for the user to try and find recipes they have already found once before. While other programs may also offer this option, Ava is simple and easy to operate; there are not many steps needed to accomplish a task and everything is located on one page so the user will not get lost in the program or confused. When someone finds a recipe, they will no longer have to question whether the recipe is a desirable choice or not because they will be able to see quality reviews based on a five-star rating as well as suggestions made by real people on how they changed or bettered the recipe when they made it. Most recipe websites and programs provide a rating or review but mostly these reviews are vague and ambiguous. A rating of three stars can mean  something different to multiple users, our system clearly labels what each star means and what it takes to get that rating. If a user looks at a rating and sees the meal received three stars, there is no longer any confusion about what those three stars mean. Not only is there a star rating, there is also a place to leave a personable review where users are given (if desired) templates to leave a review while also justifying those reasons. There will not be anymore vague reviews like “I didn’t like it”, our templates allow the user to fill in responses as to why they feel the way they do. Once again, our system is simple,convenient, as well as less machine-like and friendlier to the user. 

Similarly, if someone finds a recipe that they think one of their friends would like, they have the option to share it with them. While other websites that offer similar resources to plan their meals may also give the user ratings and reviews of recipes or specific dishes, most of the time these reviews are given by strangers and individuals that the user does not know or can fully trust. The user is forced to take the word of someone else which is not as beneficial as getting a review from an acquaintance or friend.  The user will also be able to keep track of their own favorite recipes by saving or bookmarking them to build their own recipe book and view or cook later. While some people may believe that it would be easier to just use Google or other search engines to find the recipe they desire, we believe this is not the case. Ava is specific, she can provide much more than search results from a regular search engine because she bases her results on precise ingredients from the user’s pantry. The results that Ava provides will be different than other programs because she will also provide a relevancy score to rate how relevant each result is to the original search request. If a user only has three ingredients,then the recipes provided will be much more limited and Ava will provide recipes that are relevant to the request and let the user know that the result is not a perfect match but is still very close. A regular search engine is more robotic, it does not personalize based on the person. Anyone who plugs in a certain phrase can get the same result but with Ava the results are based on the certain person and offers a more personable experience to the user. Ava can also be more convenient than a regular search engine because she can save or bookmark the user’s favorite recipes; therefore, the user does not have to continually search for a recipe they found last week, instead it will be saved to their account and they can access it whenever they want to remember that certain recipe or meal. This will save time for those users who may only have time on the weekend, to plan for meals during the week, when their schedule becomes more laborious and there is little or no time to prepare dinner or continually search for a specific recipe online. 

Administration will be able to use Ava to edit or add recipes and keep track of the most viewed recipes. While administration has some control of Ava, the majority of Ava relies on the participation of users; therefore, our users have confidence in our program and may believe it is more relatable and personable for them. For the users who just want to add a side dish or dessert to complete a meal, Ava offers suggestions with recipes to make a full balanced meal. This is different from other websites that may only offer the recipe for the main course and the user is forced to piece together side dishes to make a complete meal. Even if the user does not wish to add dishes to make a meal they will still be given the suggestions which can help them branch out and experience new recipes and meals. Users will also be able to see the most popular recipes viewed by others in case they want to mix up their normal meal plans and try something new. While other sites can show popular recipes in general, Ava is different because she not only shows a popular recipe but can show potential reviews from people they know which have made that recipe popular and why they liked it. Ava is a powerful resource that can maximize the cooking experience in an easy, fun, and more personable way.She will be user friendly and make our users want to come back time and time again. 

 

 